[MUSIC]
In this exercise,
we're going to cover decision optimization
using the Excel Solver Add-in.
Decision optimization is concerned with
choosing the best set of decisions
such that our objective is maximized or
minimized.
The decisions are usually subject
to constraints such as budget or
available labor hours.
For example, we love to increase profits
by increasing marketing advertisements.
However, in reality, we most likely have
a maximum amount of resources that we can
dedicate to marketing.
So we're going to demonstrate how to
setup Excel to allow the Solver Add-in to
optimize a set of decisions.
In the scenario below we've been
presented with five business initiatives
which come with an estimated total cost,
and a net benefit.
In this case, we'd like to know which
initiatives to execute against,
subject to a $25 million budget.
In other words, our decision
variables are binary, yes or no.
And we want to determine which
initiatives to say yes to.
To accomplish this task, we're going
to use Excel Solver, a free add-in.
Solver requires a few inputs,
such as the objective cell, the type of
optimization problem, and any constraints.
To increase profits,
we've identified five different
initiatives that we can implement.
The first initiative to
consider is adding a new route,
which has an estimated
net benefit of $275,000.
Next we're considering adding more
capacity to our existing set of routes.
Which carries an estimated
net benefit of $2.9 million.
Another option is to invest in
a new technology solution that is
estimated to bring a net
benefit of $825,000.
The final two options under
consideration are increasing
the size of the sales force,
and a process improvement plan.
With estimated net benefit
figures of $2.8 million, and
$1.2 million respectively.
While we'd like to implement each
initiative because they all carry
a positive net benefit, we're constrained
by our $25 million budget, and
each initiative requires an investment.
In fact,
if we sum the cost of each initiative,
The total investment exceeds $56 million,
twice our budget.
In cells C293 through G293, we've included
the net benefit of each initiative.
And the costs are in
cells C296 through G296.
In our scenario, we want to maximize net
benefit while keeping total costs at or
below $25 million.
Excel Solver is an add-in that needs
to be enabled if it is not already.
To check if it's enabled
navigate to the DATA tab and
look for
the Solver icon in the Analysis section.
If you see the icon then the add-in
is enabled and you can proceed.
If not, navigate to the FILE tab and
click on the Options button from the menu.
In the Excel Options window
select the Add-ins option.
At the bottom of the window,
find the Manager drop-down, and
with Excel Add-ins selected, click Go.
This brings up the Add-ins window.
Check the Solver Add-in box,
then click OK.
Verify the Solver icon is
visible on the DATA tab.
As a reminder,
want to maximize net benefit,
subject to our $25 million budget.
Returning to the problem,
we've labeled cell I293 as the objective
cell, at the moment, this cell is empty.
But we need it to be linked
to our decision variables in
cells C292 through G292.
The decision variables are binary, 1 if
we decide to pursue the initiative, and
0 otherwise.
In the objective cell, we need to sum the
net benefit if the corresponding decision
variable is 1, and disregard it
if the decision variable is 0.
One way to accomplish this is a SUMIF
formula, however this option will become
less efficient if the decision
variables are not binary.
As a result we will use SUMPRODUCT
because it can handle both binary and
non-binary decision variables.
The SUMPRODUCT formula multiplies
corresponding elements
of equal length arrays,
then sums each product.
For example, the first element of
the first array is multiplied by the first
element of the second array, second
element by second element, third by third.
Until each element of each
array has been accounted for.
Then we sum the result of each product.
Some viewers might recognize this
as the dot product of two vectors.
In cell I293, type =SUMPRODUCT and
hit the Tab key.
The first array will be
our decision variables.
So select C292 through G292 and
type a comma.
The next array is the net benefit range.
Select cells C293 through G293.
Close parentheses and hit Enter.
Right now the formula returns 0 because
each decision variable is empty.
To further demonstrate SUMPRODUCT, place
1 in cell C292, and observe the result.
Now we have 1 multiplied by cell C293,
with all remaining products totaling 0.
The goal is to get Solver to change
our decision variables between 1 and
0 until we have the largest
possible number in cell I293,
while keeping investment expenditures
at or below $25 million.
The investment costs for each initiative
is located in the range C296 through G296.
Similar to the objective cell,
we need a way to link the total
investment cost to our decision cells.
That is, if we choose to execute a plan,
we add that plan's investment
costs to total costs.
We'll use the SUMPRODUCT
again to accomplish this.
In cell I296, Type =SUMPRODUCT and
press the Tab key.
Similar to the objective cell, the first
array is the decision variable range.
C292 through G292.
So, select those cells with your mouse.
Type a comma,
the second array is the total cost range,
in cells C296 through G296.
Once you've selected that array, finalize
the formula by closing the parenthesis and
hitting the Enter key.
Now, since we have a 1 in cell C292,
the result of the formula should
be 1 times the number in C296.
As the decision cells change,
the total cost will updated.
We've configured the Excel spreadsheet to
update when the decision variables change
using the SUMPRODUCT formula.
Now, we need to setup Solver
to change the decision cells.
In order to maximize the objective cell,
while keeping cell I296 less than or
equal to K296.
We're going to input all of these
information in the Solver window.
To open the Solver window,
navigate to the DATA tab.
And click the Solver button
in the Analysis section.
The first input is Set Objective.
This let's Solver know which
cell we want to optimize.
Click the reference box and
select cell I293.
Next is the to option which is
determined by the type of problem.
We want to maximize net benefit, so
click the option button Max,
if not already selected.
Moving down the window we have the,
By Changing Variable Cells,
cell reference box.
This lets Solver know which cells
need to be changed until it
finds the optimal solution.
We want Solver to choose the initiatives
that should be executed to maximize
net benefit.
Which means choosing the best combinations
of 1's and 0's in cells C292 through G292.
Click the cell reference box and
select cells C292 through G292,
and hit the Enter key.
We now turn to the constraints
section of the window.
We're going to enter two constraints.
First, our decision variables are binary,
so we need to let Solver know this.
Second, we need to specify the total
cost cell that is calculated for
a particular combination of 1's and 0's.
This will be our left-hand side.
The right-hand side of this constraint
is going to be our total budget,
which is located in cell K296.
To add the constraints,
click the Add button.
We'll enter the binary constraints first,
so
select the cells C292 through
G292 in the cell reference box.
Then change the qualifier drop-down to
bin, which stands for binary, click Add.
For the budget constraint,
click cell I296, then hit the Enter key.
We need cell I296 to be less than or
equal to $25 million,
which we've provided in cell K296.
Make sure our qualifier is less than or
equal, for
the constraint box select K296 and
click OK.
The last option you configure is
the solving method, select Simplex LP.
This is the algorithm
used to change the cells,
but the details of the mechanics
are beyond the scope of this exercise.
We're now ready to solve.
Click Solve and Solver will find
the optimal solution that satisfies
all constraints,
assuming there is a feasible solution.
As you can see, the best possible solution
is to choose technology investment,
adding more sales reps, and
the process improvement plan.
The result of this is a net
benefit of $4.9 million.
And the total investment
required is $23.4 million,
which we require to be less
than our budget of $25 million.
Why is this such a powerful tool?
Couldn't we just change
the values of the cells manually
until we get the best solution?
Well, technically you can, but
this is a simple problem and
you still have 32 different combinations
of initiatives to assess and compare.
Imagine if we had more
variables to consider.
For binary variables
each additional variable
doubles the number of combinations
we'd have to consider.
If the decision variables
are integers it becomes very
difficult to obtain
the optimal solution manually.
We've now demonstrated how to
configure Excel to find an optimal
solution using the Solver Add-in.
Now it's your turn to practice
in the student workbook.
[MUSIC]